     Add content     Press 'ctrl + d' to return to command prompt.Must Know Linux/Unix CommandsTo view a file, use the command -cat filenameLet's see the file we just created -Must Know Linux/Unix CommandsLet's see another file sample2Must Know Linux/Unix CommandsThe syntax to combine 2 files is -cat file1 file2 > newfilenameLet's combine sample 1 and sample 2.Must Know Linux/Unix CommandsAs soon as you insert this command and hit enter, the files are concatenated, but you do not see a result. This is because Bash Shell (Terminal) is silent type.  Shell Commands will never give you a confirmation message like "OK" or "Command Successfully Executed". It will only show a message when something goes wrong or when an error has occurred.To view the new combo file "sample" use the commandcat sampleMust Know Linux/Unix CommandsNote: Only text files can be displayed and combined using this command.Deleting FilesThe 'rm' command removes files from the system without confirmation.To remove a file use syntax -rm filenameMust Know Linux/Unix CommandsMoving and Re-naming filesTo move a file, use the command.mv filename new_file_locationSuppose we want to move the file "sample2" to location /home/guru99/Documents. Executing the commandmv sample2 /home/guru99/DocumentsMust Know Linux/Unix Commandsmv command needs super user permission. Currently, we are executing the command as a standard user. Hence we get the above error. To overcome the error use command.sudo command_you_want_to_executeSudo program allows regular users to run programs with the security privileges of the superuser or root.Sudo command will ask for password authentication. Though, you do not need to know the root password. You can supply your own password. After authentication, the system will invoke the requested command.Sudo maintains a log of each command run. System administrators can trackback the person responsible for undesirable changes in the system.guru99@VirtualBox:~$ sudo mv sample2 /home/quru99/Documents [sudo] password for guru99: ****guru99@VirtualBox:~$ For renaming file:mv filename newfilenameMust Know Linux/Unix CommandsNOTE: By default, the password you entered for sudo is retained for 15 minutes per terminal. This eliminates the need of entering the password time and again.You only need root/sudo privileges, only if the command involves files or directories not owned by the user or group running the commandsDirectory Manipulations

Must Know Linux/Unix CommandsEnough with File manipulations! Let's learn some directory commands.Creating Directories

Directories can be created on a Linux operating system using the following commandmkdir directorynameThis command will create a subdirectory in your present working directory, which is usually your "Home Directory".For example,mkdir mydirectoryMust Know Linux/Unix CommandsIf you want to create a directory in a different location other than 'Home directory', you could use the following command -mkdir For example:mkdir /tmp/MUSICwill create a directory 'Music' under '/tmp' directoryMust Know Linux/Unix CommandsYou can also create more than one directory at a time. Must Know Linux/Unix CommandsRemoving DirectoriesTo remove a directory, use the command -rmdir directorynameExamplermdir mydirectorywill delete the directory mydirectoryMust Know Linux/Unix CommandsTip: Ensure that there is no file / sub-directory under the directory that you want to delete. Delete the files/sub-directory first before deleting the parent directory.Must Know Linux/Unix CommandsRenaming DirectoryThe 'mv' (move) command (covered earlier) can also be used for renaming directories. Use the below-given format:mv directoryname newdirectorynameLet us try it:Must Know Linux/Unix CommandsOther Important CommandsThe 'Man' commandMan stands for manual which is a reference book of a Linux operating system. It is similar to HELP file found in popular software.To get help on any command that you do not understand, you can type

man 

The terminal would open the manual page for that command.

For an example, if we type man man and hit enter; terminal would give us information on man command

Must Know Linux/Unix Commands

Must Know Linux/Unix Commands
The History Command

History command shows all the commands that you have used in the past for the current terminal session. This can help you refer to the old commands you have entered and re-used them in your operations again.

Must Know Linux/Unix Commands
The clear command

This command clears all the clutter on the terminal and gives you a clean window to work on, just like when you launch the terminal.

Must Know Linux/Unix Commands
Pasting commands into the terminal

Many times you would have to type in long commands on the Terminal. Well, it can be annoying at times, and if you want to avoid such a situation then copy, pasting the commands can come to rescue.

For copying, the text from a source, you would use Ctrl + c, but for pasting it on the Terminal, you need to use Ctrl + Shift + p. You can also try Shift + Insert or select Edit>Paste on the menu

NOTE: With Linux upgrades, these shortcuts keep changing. You can set your preferred shortcuts via Terminal> Edit> Keyboard Shortcuts.
Printing in Unix/Linux

Unix/Linux - Print , Email , Install New Software

Let's try out some easy unix command list which can print files in a format you want. What more, your original file does not get affected at all by the formatting that you do. Let us learn about these commands and their use.

Click here if the video is not accessible

'pr' command

This command helps in formatting the file for printing on the terminal. There are many options available with this command which help in making desired format changes on file. The most used 'pr' options are listed below.   
Option 	Function
-x 	Divides the data into 'x' columns
-h "header" 	Assigns "header" value as the report header
-t 	Does not print the header and top/bottom margins
-d 	Double spaces the output file
-n 	Denotes all line with numbers
-l page length 	Defines the lines (page length) in a page. Default is 56
-o margin 	Formats the page by the margin number

Let us try some of the options and study their effects.

Dividing data into columns

'Tools' is a file (shown below).

Unix/Linux - Print , Email , Install New Software

We want its content to be arranged in three columns. The syntax for the same would be:

pr -x Filename

The '-x' option with the 'pr' command divides the data into x columns.

Unix/Linux - Print , Email , Install New Software

Assigning a header

The syntax is:

pr -h "Header" Filename

The '-h' options assigns "header" value as the report header.

Unix/Linux - Print , Email , Install New Software

As shown above, we have arranged the file in 3 columns and assigned a header

Denoting all lines with numbers

The syntax is:

pr -n Filename

This command denotes all the lines in the file with numbers.

Unix/Linux - Print , Email , Install New Software

These are some of the 'pr' command options that you can use to modify the file format.

Printing a file

Once you are done with the formatting, and it is time for you to get a hard copy of the file, you need to use the following command:

lp Filename

or

lpr Filename

In case you want to print multiple copies of the file, you can use the number modifier.

Unix/Linux - Print , Email , Install New Software

In case you have multiple printers configured, you can specify a particular printer using the Printer modifier

Unix/Linux - Print , Email , Install New Software
Installing Software

In windows, the installation of a program is done by running the setup.exe file. The installation bundle contains the program as well various dependent components required to run the program correctly.

Unix/Linux - Print , Email , Install New Software

In Linux/UNIX, installation files are distributed as packages. But the package contains only the program itself. Any dependent components will have to be installed separately which are usually available as packages themselves.

Unix/Linux - Print , Email , Install New Software

You can use the apt commands to install or remove a package. Let's update all the installed packages in our system using command -

sudo apt-get update

Unix/Linux - Print , Email , Install New Software

The easy and popular way to install programs on Ubuntu is by using the Software center as most of the software packages are available on it and it is far more secure than the files downloaded from the internet.

Unix/Linux - Print , Email , Install New Software
Linux Mail Command

For sending mails through a terminal, you will need to install packages 'mailutils'.

The command syntax is -

sudo apt-get install packagename

Once done, you can then use the following syntax for sending an email.

mail -s 'subject' -c 'cc-address' -b 'bcc-address' 'to-address'

This will look like:

Unix/Linux - Print , Email , Install New Software

Press Cntrl+D you are finished writing the mail. The mail will be sent to the mentioned address.

Summary

    You can format and print a file directly from the terminal. The formatting you do on the files does not affect the file contents
    In Unix/Linux,  software is installed in the form of packages. A package contains the program itself. Any dependent component needs to be downloaded separately.
    You can also send e-mails from terminal using the 'mail' network commands. It is very useful linux commands.

Linux Command List

Below is a Cheat Sheet of Linux commands we have learned in this tutorial

Command
	

Description

ls
	

Lists all files and directories in the present working directory

ls - R
	

Lists files in sub-directories as well

ls - a
	

Lists hidden files as well

ls - al
	

Lists files and directories with detailed information like permissions, size, owner, etc.

cat > filename
	

Creates a new file

cat filename
	

Displays the file content

cat file1 file2 > file3
	

Joins two files (file1, file2) and stores the output in a new file (file3)

mv  file "new file path"
	

Moves the files to the new location

mv filename new_file_name
	

Renames the file to a new filename

sudo
	

Allows regular users to run programs with the security privileges of the superuser or root

rm filename
	

Deletes a file

man
	

Gives help information on a command

history
	

Gives a list of all past commands typed in the current terminal session

clear
	

Clears the terminal

mkdir directoryname
	

Creates a new directory in the present working directory or a at the specified path

rmdir
	

Deletes a directory

mv
	

Renames a directory
pr -x 	Divides the file into x columns
pr -h 	Assigns a header to the file
pr -n 	Denotes the file with Line Numbers
lp -nc
lpr c 	Prints "c" copies of the File
lp -d lp -P 	Specifies name of the printer
apt-get 	Command used to install and update packages
mail -s 'subject' -c 'cc-address' -b 'bcc-address' 'to-address' 	Command to send email
mail -s "Subject" to-address < Filename 	Command to send email with attachment

Download Linux Tutorial PDF

 

    Prev
    Report a Bug
    Next

